[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Some people travel across
the globe collecting artifacts
and sacred objects.
But Lane Carlson collects
medicine stories.
Take a look at one man's
journey across the world
where he asks the question,
what's your medicine?
>> I think everyone has
the right to well-being,
to integrate mind, body,
and soul into harmony.
But the world
throws a lot at you.
My name is Lane Carlson.
I grew up in Minnesota.
And I watched my
family and friends
get overprescribed medication
to cling to their greatest
resource, their health.
As a kid, I was
diagnosed with depression
and I knew that pills were not
going to be my way to healing.
So when I got out and
I discovered the world,
I saw that there is
other ways to heal.
So I decided to devote my life,
traveling the world discovering
healing hands,
miraculous plants,
and sometimes bizarre
practices that are
making people's lives better.
>> Trust yourself.
Open your heart.
Reduce your ego.
>> I'm meeting all
different types of healers,
different practitioners.
>> Let it go.
>> The premise behind the show
is to discover who these people
are and what their medicine is.
>> My medicine is
shamanic healing.
the Wim Hof method.
>> My medicine is henna.
>> Sound is my medicine.
>> Healing isn't always easy.
>> Ayahuasca physical sensations
in the body range from
ecstatic, erotic, to painful.
>> But I'll stop at nothing
to bring that knowledge home.
>> People need to
get rid of stress.
They need to shift this
whole focus of materialism
and keeping up with the Joneses.
Discover their heart, what's
happening in their hearts.
>> Join me on my
healing journey.
What's your medicine?
>> Wow.
Passion.
I love this.
That's medicine
in and of itself.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
Thanks for--
>> Welcome, Lane.
Welcome to "The Healing Matrix."
>> Thanks for having me on.
>> It's good to have you.
Of all things, how did you get
focused on medicine stories?
>> You know, this all
started from a young age,
my personal experience with
some trauma of diagnosed with
depression as a kid, as you saw.
And this was at
13, 14 years old,
where I was being prescribed
medications for depression.
And I realized,
even at a young age,
I remember going
to my mom, like,
do I have to take these things
for the rest of my life?
And she's like, no, you're
going to get better.
And I was like,
what do I gotta do?
Like as just a curious kid.
What do I need to do?
Go do happy things.
Go do fun things for yourself.
Take care of yourself.
This is like easy,
natural things to do.
So I did that.
I started doing
that at a young age,
and I stopped taking
the medication.
And when feelings of
depression and anxiety
were coming back into
my life later on,
going through a break up,
you know, maybe the career
wasn't going where
it wanted to, I
had these feelings
come up again.
And I was like, uh-oh, here
comes that darkness again.
What do I need to do?
And that's what really
led me on the path.
That's where I first
found meditation.
I've heard about it, but I
never experienced it myself.
I did a 10-day Vipassana
meditation retreat,
and I found, OK, this is
good, this was grounding,
this is for me to really
come back into my body.
And that's when-- then
I went and discovered
and I found Ayahuasca.
And I was like, oh my--
it's like a whole
new world opened up
for me, this healing world.
And different healers
and practitioners
started coming into my life.
And it was such a beautiful
experience for myself,
that's when I wanted to
start sharing these stories.
And that's what led me to
start What's Your Medicine.
So really, it was just my own
curiosity to help heal myself,
and then finding such
great benefits within it
all that I wanted to start
sharing these types of stories.
>> So before we dive into that--
and I can't wait to do that--
let's just go back for a moment.
And where do you suppose
this depression sensation was
coming from, such an early age?
What might have been
going on for you?
>> I was asking myself a
lot of those questions,
especially at 13, 14 years old.
I'm like, why me?
Nothing that I could
put my finger on.
There wasn't any
big event in my life
that happened to that point.
There was no loss.
It was really interesting to me.
So I did a spiritual side.
I did my master's course
in spiritual psychology.
And we did this thing called
the genogram, which basically
maps out your family history.
So think of a family tree but
with trauma, understanding
where anxiety, depression,
where alcoholism,
where different
cancers are coming in.
And I mapped all of
this, just interviewing
different relatives
in my family.
And understanding where
this energy is coming from.
And I got to see.
I was like, oh, wow.
No one ever talked about
this in my family, a genogram
understanding where all
of these, the anxieties,
depressions, the
alcoholism, like
all of this that was coming in.
I'm like, here I am, kind
of at that focal point
of all of this coming through.
>> Recipient, yes.
>> I'm like, oh, OK.
But I also understood
why my mom and dad
went through the same thing.
And a lot of family
members went through this,
but no one talked about it.
And so my job, where
I felt was like,
OK, well, this is
not a bad thing.
Let's talk about it.
This was my job to kind of
bring this to the forefront.
And that's what I understand it.
It was an energy thing
that was coming through.
And I also researched
a little bit on this.
You also become a part of--
think of your family
as your tribe.
So if you're witnessing your mom
or your dad going through this,
it's almost like this belonging.
I'm going to take
on this disease
or I'm going to take on this
feeling because you have it
as well.
And now I belong to my tribe.
>> Now I belong, too.
Yeah.
>> And so there's a little
bit of that in there as well.
So that was my understanding
of how this came into my being
and what I need to
do in this lifetime
to help heal that and also
heal that for next generations.
Because we don't want this to
keep going on for other people.
>> Right.
And science is certainly
showing us today
that we have an impact
on genetically what
we have inherited.
We don't have to live
that out, if we just
recognize the truth of who we
are, that we're actually here
to transform that
into something new.
But at 13, at 11, at, 10,
at 5, we don't know that.
We don't know how to do that.
>> At 13, you're like--
and I remember sitting
down to go to the doctor
and they're telling
me, you know--
it was literally
like a storybook.
You're sitting in
this big mahogany desk
and you're going
in and this person
has zero connection with you.
And they're like,
well, as you come
in, they're writing
on a prescription pad,
prescriptions to Prozac.
And I'm like, what
just happened?
I have no idea.
I have no connection
with this person.
You know nothing about me
but you're prescribing me
a medication at 13 years old.
You know, like bananas.
>> You decide to take
matters into your own hands.
You moved into
finding your medicine.
And how did you do that?
How did you find your medicine?
>> From the young age
or from the older age?
>> Yes.
>> So I'll say both.
So from the young age,
I found my medicine
when all's it was was that my
mom planted a seed in my head.
She said, you just need to
do fun things for yourself.
What makes you happy?
I'm like, well, I love sports,
I love to play baseball,
I love to go outside,
I like to run,
I love to go do funny movies.
She's like, go do that.
You're going to get better.
So it was her planting
that seed of, this
isn't going to last forever.
This is temporary.
We all go through these
times of darkness.
And you're going to be OK.
And so it was that glimmer
of hope that she gave me.
And sometimes that's all
people need is like--
>> She kept the
door open for you.
>> You're going to be OK.
Like, it's going to be fine.
You need to start doing these
fun things for yourself.
And when that started
coming up later on in life,
I was like, OK, I know my body.
I know this.
But I also know my past had
been, OK, I'm feeling bad,
I'm going to go
party, or I'm going
to go hang out with my friends.
I'm like, eh, it just
isn't me anymore.
I want to know what
else is going on inside.
And so it wasn't
always the relationship
that was the problem.
It was why is this
coming up in my life?
And I was able to discover a lot
of that, a lot of my own truths
that I was living, a lot of
what my ego was telling me
I should be.
And it was nice to
be able to peel back
that layer and kind of
see the truth of who I am
and how I need to stand
forward in this life,
and what I need to do.
So finding that meditation.
And I would say
meditation is really
my biggest medicine right now.
It's what I wake up with.
I'm like, OK, that's the
one thing I know I can go to
and trust is safe.
And that's been very powerful.
>> So you know, we talk
about meditation as medicine.
Maybe we could define
for our viewers
what medicine means to you.
You travel the world saying,
what's your medicine?
What does medicine-- let's
just start foundationally.
What are we looking
at when we're
asking about medicine itself?
>> Yeah.
And first, I'll give the--
when I first heard medicine,
I always think clinical
and I always think pills.
And so part of my
medicine now is
redefining what medicine means.
Medicine is beautiful.
So what medicine means now
for me is medicine is nature.
Medicine's breath.
Medicine can be sun.
Medicine is redefined into
so many different avenues
right now.
And so medicine is
what brings you back
to that loving place,
to that natural place of
equanimity within your life
and with your body.
That's medicine.
>> Medicine.
Like a salve for the
soul and coming home.
>> It's like, how do I come
back to that innocent place
as a baby?
Because as babies, you're grown
into this bliss of just love.
And that's medicine.
So how do I get
back to that place?
>> They haven't forgotten yet.
>> Right.
They haven't forgotten.
How do I get back to that place?
What's going to bring me there?
Yeah.
>> Yeah.
Beautiful.
Part of Lane's work is to seek
out and test unconventional
technologies and therapies.
Take a look at
the Theta Chamber.
>> I'm Loren.
And the Theta Chamber
is my medicine.
All right.
So we have a theta bed. we're
at the Theta Wellness Center.
This is one of their
signature pieces here.
So it brings you
into theta rest.
So if you think about when
you go to sleep at night,
this is what brings
you the restorative.
It regenerates your body,
gets you back into a healing.
I don't know if I
really trust all this.
So I've got to go check
this out for myself.
I'm actually a little bit
scared because this thing spins
and I'm a little
bit claustrophobic.
These look like
some fun Burning Man
goggles that spit
lights at your eyes.
So this is going to
be one hell of a trip.
What do the goggles
do, by the way?
Light therapy.
This will only produce
white, but your brain
will interpret to be other
colors as well as patterns.
>> Inserting light
therapy goggles.
We should have a
sound effect for this.
(SPEAKING IN ARNOLD
SCHWARZENEGGER'S VOICE) I'll
be back.
That went really quick.
I feel like I was in
an Ayahuasca ceremony.
[IMITATES EXPLOSION]
I want to go back.
That was great.
I mean, I literally felt
like I was on top of a cloud.
And when I say DMT experience,
for those of you at home
that have experienced DMT,
a near-death experience,
that's what you had
that entire time there.
So it's in your,
you know, definitely
some crazy visuals
coming at you.
But the nothingness you
feel like literally you're
floating on a cloud.
And powerful experience.
There is like some beats
coming into my-- like squeezing
or pulsing of my ears, which
was getting the left brain
and right brain to communicate.
We also had beautiful
binaural beats.
We had some beautiful
music going through.
So it was just a complete bliss.
I'm blissed out watching that.
>> So we're going to have to
ask some questions about some
of the things that you compared
it to so that our viewers can
relate, if they haven't been
through some of those things.
But first, let's
just speak about what
are the benefits of
the theta chamber?
>> So going in--
by the way, someone was telling
me about this theta chamber.
I had no idea.
I was like, what is a
spinning bed, binaural beats,
light therapy goggles.
I had no idea what
any of this was.
And I was like, I
gotta go try this out.
So some of the
benefits are, it's
one thing being explained this,
but when you experience it,
it's a whole different level.
So theta rest, when we
go to sleep at night,
you know, you go to
sleep, that's that wave
that your body and
your brain is going
to meet at to heal naturally.
So our bodies are just
beautiful instruments in order
to find that healing.
So when we're in trauma
or we're suffering
from post-traumatic stress
or any type of brain injuries
and we're going to bed
with that constant stress,
we're not allowing our
bodies to naturally heal.
And that's what this bed does
is it allows you to finally get
into that restful place.
Because you're not
in your head anymore.
You're not in a
stressed out place.
And you're not in that
fight or flight mode.
You're in theta rest.
And I tell you, 45
minutes into that chamber
went by in like 5 minutes.
So you don't experience time.
And in that place, your
body's just finally letting go
and you have no concept
of what time is.
You're just allowing your
body to naturally heal.
And what happens
then is your body
naturally produces serotonin and
dopamines to actually bring you
back to that beautiful
place that we were talking
about as a baby, as that infant,
as that beautiful, natural
healing place.
That's what that theta bed does.
Also with the light
therapy goggles,
it's a computer-generated
program
that will allow your brain to
start creating neural pathways
and connections again that
are harmonious to your body.
And same with the
binaural beats.
So allowing the left
and right hemispheres
to finally communicate in
a harmonious way, where
if you've had some
neurological damage
or you're suffering
from an addiction,
it's creating greater pathways,
again, of communication
to allow your body to naturally
be in that state of bliss,
in that state of healing.
So when I say it was a soup of
healing, that's what it was.
You're spinning.
You've got light
therapy goggles.
You got beautiful music
going in and binaural beats.
Yeah.
>> And so coming out of that,
do you have a better sense
of what?
What is the benefit?
How does someone
translate that experience
into changing how they are
able to be self-healing or live
in this life more
comfortably or whole?
>> I'll give it from my example,
in the beginning was after that
experience in that bed,
you come out and you just,
it's almost like you've been in
the most restful vacation that
you've ever been on.
And so your interest of--
the last thing you want
to go do is, let's say,
go grab a cigarette
or go drink or go
do anything toxic in your body.
You're more aware.
And you're more in that
state of, wow, this
is a beautiful instrument
that I am in right now
and I want to take care of it.
And so you're in
that place of, I
don't want to harm
this vessel right now.
And so you're in that
place of bliss and love.
And when you're in
that, you think about
that you're in that
vibration, you're
also going to attract
that vibration around you.
And so that's what I felt.
And with addicts
that are going there.
They're treating a lot of
addicts within the Theta
Wellness Center.
And again, what that's
doing for them is the same.
If you're doing that two
or three times a week,
some people are going in
there every single day.
And it's curbing that
addiction pattern.
Because you're changing the
neural pathways in your brain
and in your body, you're
less likely to go back
to these old patterns.
Because you're changing
the chemistry of your body.
So that's what the Theta
Wellness and that's
what the theta chamber does
for these addicts as well.
It's creating the body
chemistry in order
for them to change behaviors.
And when you're
doing that, you're
creating a whole new being.
Instead of going to
these vices of like,
I've got to have this one thing.
It's like, no, I've just
experienced this bliss.
And it allows you to
stay on that vibration.
>> Mm.
So you achieve that same
state in meditation?
Do you get to that same--
so it's a similar.
So for our viewers
that are meditators
that haven't been
in a theta chamber,
is it kind of producing
a similar effect?
>> Similar effect.
Because you're in that
state of within a really
good deep meditation,
your thoughts
are not on job or something
in the past, injuries.
You're in that place of, you
want to think nothingness.
And within that
nothingness, you can
allow your body to heal and
to function in its proper way.
So that's what the theta
chamber did for me.
>> So it kind of
acts as a reset.
So gets you over the hump
or through a threshold
so that you can
begin from the new,
having had a different
experience than the one
that you've been in recently.
>> It's a great way of thinking
about it is a factory reset
button.
Meditation is that reset
button every morning.
Like, how do I want
to start my day?
You know, the first 20,
30 minutes of your morning
can really tell what
the course of your life
or the course of your
day was going to be.
So if I can start in
that place of at least
I can control this
first 30 minutes
of my day, in that
nice, peaceful place,
let's see where that goes.
>> What other modalities have
you explored and discovered
that have been game changers?
>> Oh, man.
Where do I begin?
>> Any big ones that
were significant for you?
>> Yeah.
Ayahuasca was a big
game changer for me.
And Ayahuasca was
something I heard about.
I started hearing
stories about it.
But I did a complete--
I did two years of research
before I dove, before I
went and did a ceremony.
And that's what I always
tell everybody else is like,
do your research.
This may not be
something for you.
And so that was one that
really changed my life.
And I experienced what
people call an ego death.
And it allowed me to really
think differently about myself.
I was going through a
breakup at that time.
And it allowed me to
finally cry and just let
go of the pain
and the depression
and the feelings
of non-worthiness,
and just let go.
And that was such a
powerful experience for me.
And I did quite a
bit of work with that
in the last 5 and 1/2 years was
a lot of deep Ayahuasca work.
We did a documentary
on Ayahuasca.
One of our episodes
is on there, learning
how to make the medicine,
what it does to your body.
And so that was a very
big game changer for me.
And I think about
it this way, it's
like talk about a
factory reset button
and you're like, OK, cool.
Now what else is out there?
And you start attracting
different people in your life.
Your interests start changing.
So my happy hours, going
to the bar with friends
was like-- not that that's bad.
I'm not saying it's bad.
But it was different.
I wasn't attracted
to that anymore.
>> That was your medicine.
>> That was my medicine.
>> And now it is not.
>> And now it's not.
And sometimes that's
people's medicine.
But it wasn't like, I
can't wait for the weekend
so I can go to the bars.
Like, no.
It just wasn't there anymore.
>> I'd actually rather
take care of myself.
>> I'd rather take care-- and
my interests in food changed.
And again, not saying that
the old stuff was bad.
It was just, I
became more aware.
My palate changed.
My interests changed.
The people around me changed.
Where I was putting
my energy changed.
>> This is what happens
when we start to wake up.
>> Yeah.
And that's OK.
And I started
thinking about this
is I've given $100 worth
of energy every single day.
Where are you going
to spend that money?
And I started becoming
really aware of that.
I'm like OK, well, if I'm
going to waste $50 of energy
on toxic food in the
beginning of the day,
I'm going to be
depleted by 4:00 PM.
Then I'm going on reserves.
And that's how
people get depleted.
>> Yeah, exactly.
Lane is also working
with visionaries
who are working with
ancestral medicine
within a spiritual tradition
and with innovation.
Please take a look at Aya Flow.
>> My name is Dennis And
my medicine is Aya Flow
Microdosing Ayahuasca.
Seeing the potential of
the medicine Ayahuasca
and the visions they have and
the healings that happen there,
what I've seen that many
people after they come out
of ceremony, they sometimes
are a bit lost and slowly going
back to where they came from,
the same pattern, same habits,
not shifting many things.
How do I keep this beautiful
high vibrational energy up,
keep the connection with
the medicine that I feel?
How do I go back in the Western
world with all my relationship
work and bring those
two worlds together?
I was looking,
what can we create
to keep people connected to the
medicine in a general way, more
day-to-day way?
How can we build
a community where
people feel
supported, where they
can share their experiences?
And how can we
build practices that
support your body, the
nervous system especially,
to really receive
the medicine fully?
>> Explain how microdosing
Ayahuasca works.
>> So with Dennis specifically,
he works with a lot of people
following ceremony, following
doing an Ayahuasca ceremony.
This is the first intro.
So you go into an
Ayahuasca ceremony.
And the vine itself is
the non-psychoactive part
of Ayahuasca.
It's made up of two parts.
There's a chakruna,
which is a leaf,
and the vine, which
is the Ayahuasca vine.
And so when combined, you have
that psychedelic experience
in a full-on Ayahuasca ceremony.
And what has been
happening a lot with people
going within ceremonies and
doing a lot of plant medicine
work is they're
missing the link, which
is the integration part of it.
It's like going to the greatest
convention or the greatest
workshop of your life and
you're like, I need to do this.
And then you go back to
your old patterns and stop,
and you don't do what
you've been taught.
So an Ayahuasca ceremony
is a big teaching.
And what Denis discovered,
and many other people have,
is people are losing that
connection to what they've
been taught and not integrating
that knowledge into their life.
And so that's why
he created this
the Ayahuasca microdosing was to
keep the medicine in your body.
And it's the
non-psychoactive part.
So the Ayahuasca vine
still works within the body
and helps create new
pathways of communication
within your body
to heal naturally.
But the biggest
part with Aya Flow
is the integration workshops
that he's going to do with you.
So it's almost like a coaching
that someone's doing with you
on a daily or weekly pattern.
So it's continuous
check ins with people.
So if you have an action
plan that you need to do,
or in my Ayahuasca
ceremony I saw
that I needed to switch jobs.
OK, so we see this, we know
that you need to do that.
Your higher self is telling
you to do something.
We're going to keep
you in the medicine.
It's non-psychoactive.
It's working within your body.
But I'm also going to
work with you as a coach.
Or think of it as a
accountability buddy
is what he is, to help bring
you along this process.
And that's the biggest
part of Aya Flow
is to keep the medicine
within your body,
to keep that practice.
People are doing
this, by the way,
with psilocybin microdosing,
with LSD microdosing.
It's to keep that information
and keep that knowledge
and allowing your
body to heal, but then
also integrate that
knowledge in a practical way.
>> And how do you check out
who's administering such
programs and make sure
that someone is getting
into the right hands?
>> Yeah.
So that's a great question.
And by the way, I had no
idea when I first started.
I did two years of research.
And I had to find somebody.
And I trusted my
intuition, first of all.
But I also, when I
met a different healer
or a practitioner, I would
end up talking to the people
that they worked with.
Do I resonate with these people?
And I'm not just taking
information and going off
and going to the
jungle to someone
that I don't know off a whim.
I need to understand.
And people have to
understand this,
if you're going to
go to a school, let's
say, like you want to
check out the school,
you want to read
some reviews on it,
you want to go meet some
people that have actually
gone to the school.
Same with a teacher or
same with a practitioner.
Do your research.
And your body, and trust your
intuition on that as well
>> It's certainly important.
>> Very important.
>> More and more people are
opening their minds to explore
alternatives for
profound healing.
We have the privilege
today to talk
with former Chicago Blackhawks
player Daniel Carcillo.
Two-time Stanley
Cup winner, Daniel
was one of the best
players in the world.
That was, until the consequences
of repeated concussions
caught up with him.
Welcome, Daniel.
>> What's up, Daniel?
>> How are you, Lane?
>> Good.
Good to see you.
>> Good to see you.
It's great to hear
your story in person.
>> Yeah, absolutely.
>> Daniel, you had
a bout with CTE.
You had a development there.
Can you tell us a
little bit about this?
>> Yeah.
So I think that a lot
of professional athletes
are worried about
contracting not only CTE
but neurological degenerative
disease after being exposed
to so much repetitive
head trauma.
And one of the things
that I advocate for is CTE
can only be
diagnosed postmortem.
So there's a list of
symptoms that a lot of us
are experiencing.
And these symptoms
come from brain injury,
which come from
brain damage, which
causes cognitive dysfunction
and puts us more at risk
for neurological disease.
But that does not mean
that we are certainly going
to get a neurological disease.
And I like to advocate
for this and this mission
and to show people that
you can recover your brain
health by turning to
anti-inflammation plant
medicine, as well as at
the core of our healing
is neuroregenesis
and neuroplasticity.
So you can introduce
things like mushrooms
into your daily
life that promote
the right and left
brain hemisphere
communicating and that
also have been shown
in double blind placebo
studies to break up things
like amyloid protein,
the same protein that
causes these neurological
degenerative diseases.
>> What are some of the
initial symptoms that you were
experiencing?
>> Light sensitivity, slurred
speech, concentration issues,
loss of appetite.
A lot of impulse control issues.
Insomnia, anxiety,
depression, and then
ultimately suicidal ideation.
And unlike Lane and
other people who
are born with these
mental illnesses
and these neurological
imbalances, mine,
I really had to learn about
it around the age of 25
to figure out what was going
on and to really correct it.
You can move into recovery.
And there's a lot of
these concussion clinics
that I went to.
And I would just caution people
to be careful with those.
Because at the core
of our healing,
we have to flesh
out inflammation
and we have to promote
neuroregenesis.
And I don't think
that that's done
in front of computer screens.
And so what I did was
I checked my hormones.
I Checked. what my pituitary
gland was naturally creating
inside of my body.
And then I turned to
plant medicines, like CBD.
I had a hero dose of
psilocybin to really wake me up
from my anxiety, depression,
and suicidal thoughts.
And now I actively
micro dose to continue
introducing the
medicine into my body
and I keep up with
certain plant medicines
that flush out the inflammation
that's in my brain.
>> And you're not
having these symptoms.
>> No.
>> None of them?
None of the symptoms?
>> No.
So there's anxiety and
depression that still comes,
but it's much less intense.
So before it used to last--
it was pretty much every
day and it would last
either all day or for weeks.
And progressively it was
getting worse and worse.
So now when it comes back,
if comes back for an hour.
And then I can use
my tools that I've
acquired, like mindfulness,
like deep belly breathing,
like holotropic breath work,
and simple stuff like yoga,
and making sure
that I'm hydrated
and looking at my diet to see
what I ate the night before
if I wake up edgy.
Because it usually has
something to do with what
I put in my stomach.
And the gut-brain axis
is really, really strong.
So six months ago,
I was lucky enough,
before I went on this
journey, to do an EEG.
And that showed my
alpha theta beta,
my waves were just way off,
all red in certain areas.
And then I went
back five months ago
to basically confirm
through science how I feel,
so that people can't just
deny my anecdotal story.
When they do that,
then I can show them
my test results that I
have no abnormalities now.
>> And all this started
after the concussions.
It's just repetitive chronic
concussed state landed you
with that symptom pattern.
>> Yes.
So weakened axons,
weakened myelin sheath.
That's how our
brain communicates.
And over, really since
I was four years old,
we started hitting in hockey.
And so as my brain
was developing,
it was also breaking down.
And now I can confidently
say that at the age of 35
I've never felt better.
And when I did end up
winning my Stanley Cups,
I spiritually and mentally
and physically dead.
>> And what kind of support did
you get from the NHL at this
time--
>> None.
>> --when you were struggling.
Nothing?
>> No.
I've been effectively
blackballed from the NHL
and from the NHLPA.
I watched my best
friend, Steve Montador,
who was cleared for upwards of
10 concussions in his career,
I watched him slowly
deteriorate and slowly, slowly
die right in front of my eyes.
And I've been very outspoken
and very honest and vulnerable
about my journey,
because I don't
want to see it happen again.
And because of
that, the Blackhawks
have turned their back on me.
The NHLPA has turned
their back on me.
And so has the
NHL, which is very,
it has to be
expected, right, when
you have a lawsuit
against them and when
I'm going to be a critical
witness for Steve's case.
And Steve's case
has the potential
to change the
world, to change how
we view sport-related
concussion,
because there's no such thing.
Just like if you
leave this studio
and you get into a
car accident, you
don't say that you got into
car accident concussion, right?
You just say that you
have a brain injury.
So these terms are made
up to confuse jurors.
And what I'm trying to do is
get as healthy as possible
so that when I do get on the
stand and these lawyers attack
my drug use and Steve's
substance abuse history
and I can really be
zen and just point them
in a direction that's
non-emotional and just really
help people understand
what's going on
with traumatic brain injury.
>> That's great.
>> So you decided to
do something about it
for yourself.
And you began an inquiry.
Did you do research
prior to engaging
in these alternative practices?
How did you find a
safe place to begin?
>> The internet.
And then just when I read
something that I thought
was credible, then I
researched who was writing it.
And then I kept
reading about them.
And then if that all panned out
and there weren't any biases,
then I listened and I tried it.
And that is how
I've healed myself.
And I say that I've healed
myself, because I really
have taken it upon myself to go
out, research every single day,
read these medical studies, and
just put two and two together.
Introducing a chemical imbalance
onto a chemical problem
in your brain is probably
not the smartest thing to do.
Flushing out
inflammation and creating
new neurological pathways
around your dead neurons
and stimulating
areas of your brain
that were shut
down due to trauma
just makes a whole
lot of sense to me.
And I'm not a doctor, but I
feel like I'm pretty well read.
And over the last four years,
I read every single day
and I listen and I
have phone calls.
And when I go to these
concussion clinics,
I asked, well, what did you see?
Is there atrophy?
And if there is,
how can I fix it?
And when some of those
people in clinics
didn't have answers
for me, then you just
have to go out and seek out
the information on your own.
And it should be hard to find.
Because big pharma's model
is to take a daily pill
to minimize these symptoms.
Meanwhile, my mission
is to get to the root
cause of these symptoms.
>> Very good.
And how did you find Lane?
>> Lane found me.
And the source just
brought us together.
And when I say the
source, it's just
our higher powers and this
mycelium network, I call it.
And he reached out.
And it's just great
to be able to talk
to like minded people who've
had a similar experience
with these plant medicines.
>> And how are you
using psilocybin now?
>> I micro dose.
And so you asked earlier if
these symptoms come back.
I was too much in the
thinking mind this past week.
And so once I can recognize
my signs and symptoms, which
three of the major ones are
over sleeping or under sleeping,
loss of appetite, and I'm
not practicing self-care.
And when I start
seeing that and I
start seeing it more
and more, and I can't
use the mindfulness
and the other practices
and I am eating right,
then I know that there's
medicine that can help me.
Then as you continue
to micro dose
and continue to
introduce the medicine,
then there's absolutely
no way that I
can be in my thinking mind.
And if you're not in
your thinking mind,
then you don't have anxiety,
because you're not in the past
and you're not too
far in the future.
You're wholly in the moment.
And that's what I've been
experiencing since I've
used that medicine again.
And usually, it lasts
for three months.
>> Yeah.
And I wanted to add
here, too, the book,
"How to Change Your Mind",
Michael Pollan did this book.
And we talked a lot about this
when we first got connected.
It was through a mutual friend.
He understood we
had similar stories.
And that's where Daniel
and I really connected.
And Daniel's story is exactly
the What's Your Medicine.
Like he's finding his
medicines that help
cure himself through
brain trauma.
But utilizing psychedelics
like psilocybin
in a controlled powerful way
is what John Hopkins University
is doing right now.
There's a $17 million
in a grant in order
for them to study
psychedelics, like psilocybin,
in order for people
to understand
that they can heal
themselves and allow the body
to heal themselves.
And this plant medicine,
specifically psilocybin,
has such a powerful
gift in order
for it to allow you
to do that yourself.
So anyway, I really
love that part of you.
And I love that you're
being a psychonaut
in understanding this work
and doing the work yourself.
And I think that-- but
specifically adding
in the science behind this.
Because I can tell
you something works
and it's been great for me.
But if I can back
it up with science.
So I love your story, Daniel.
And I think you're really
stepping forward and doing
the work and inspiring
so many others.
So thank you, buddy.
>> Thanks, brother.
Yeah.
>> Yes, thank you.
>> You mentioned the
default mode network.
And then even the Imperial
College of London and
how these medicines work.
They work on our sense of self.
And specifically with the TBI
community, that sense of self
is gone after injury.
So it can really help people
find themselves again and move
into recovery.
So yeah, man.
>> Wonderful.
Thank you so much for sharing
your story with us, Daniel.
>> Of course.
>> And we know that it's going
to be an inspiration for others
with CTE.
And hopefully we'll get to stay
in touch with your progress
and your health conditions
and your activism.
So keep the voice happening.
>> No doubt.
I appreciate you
guys having me on.
>> Yes.
Thank you for being
with us today, Daniel.
>> Thanks, Daniel.
>> OK.
See you guys.
>> Beautiful.
So he's one of your
medicine stories.
>> Love him.
Yeah.
And this is ideally what's
happening right now,
too, is we're
understanding-- and when
I was a kid, didn't have
the internet, by the way.
So I just dated myself.
But we're faced with
an injury or a trauma.
We need to understand
stories that work.
People relate to stories.
People will relate to
Daniel in a certain way
and want to try the
medicine that he's done.
And so he is one of thousands of
stories that we'll be covering.
But he's exactly
one, especially one
stepping forward and
being liked and being
a mentor for other people.
So he's working with
other athletes that
have had brain
trauma or concussions
and saying, hey, look, I know
your doctors are telling you
we need to start taking these
prescription medications,
but what if there
was another way?
This is what I did.
This is what worked for me.
I'm not telling you
you need to do this.
But this is what worked for me.
So would you like to
try something else?
And that's really
what we want to do.
That kid at 12 or 13 years old
that's faced with depression,
anxiety, that's being bullied
or that's understanding,
we've got cancer coming
up, what else can I do?
I've seen the path of where
prescription medications
and chemo and
everything else goes.
What if there was
something else?
You know, we've got
50% of Americans
on some type of
prescription medications,
over 150 million people.
What if we could start
changing that percentage
to go to some different form?
And I'm not saying
all prescriptions bad.
Some people need it.
But there are other ways.
There are other ways to heal.
And that's what we want to
do is that low hanging fruit
for that person to be, that
doesn't know about meditation,
doesn't know about
Kambo, that doesn't
know about plant-based
medicines to bring them
into a different
field of healing.
And that's what the
premise behind this show.
And bringing light to
these amazing people,
like Daniel, that are doing the
work and trying something new.
>> Important voices--
>> Very important voices.
>> --in the world.
We're going to take a look
at Lane's first experience
with something called Kambo.
>> My name is Georgie.
And my medicine is Kambo.
It's not psychedelic at all.
It's a purgative.
So you're literally cleaning
out your body energetically,
spiritually, physically
on a cellular level.
>> When you're talking about
the energies of some people that
might be around you,
even in business,
and just clearing that energy,
or if there's some entity
that's just not feel like this
cord that's attached to me,
sometimes I'm ready
to let that go.
>> Really remarkable things
happen to you from doing this.
The next say after Kambo, the
magic is just, things unfold,
like maybe massive amounts
of abundance come your way,
or something that's been lost
for a long time has found.
>> First time Kambo.
So a little bit nervous.
It's going to be OK.
>> So Lane, what is this?
Tell us what we're seeing.
>> By the way, I
was in the same of--
someone's telling me about
frog medicine, Kambo.
And I was like, what is that?
And so when I started
doing my research,
and understanding that tribal
people were using Kambo as,
it's a detoxification
for your body.
And it was to relieve a
Panema, which is a dark energy
that sometimes people feel.
And when I understood that there
was these hunters and tribal
people from the jungle that
were doing this before a hunt
or before wanting
to go find a mate,
or they were faced with some
illness with inside the body
and they just needed
to get rid of it.
So think of it as the greatest
detox that you can go through.
And I'll walk you through
a few steps of this.
So it's basically
consuming, let's say,
a couple of liters of water.
You're drinking a lot of
water before this ceremony
takes place.
And you'll take
the frog medicine.
And what I like to tell
people is like when you were
a kid, when you were four
years old or five years old,
and first remember that
flu or that sickness
that you just you're
like, oh, my god,
I need to puke,
that's what this is.
And you purge.
And your body's basically
fighting off a toxin.
So all the organs in
your body are like,
I don't know this
foreign substance
and I'm going to flush it out.
So that's what's happening
within your body.
And that's where
the detoxification
starts coming from.
So everything in your
body is fighting this off
and wanting to purge it away.
And that's what ends up
happening is you have a purge,
and you end up puking a
lot of this water out,
but also a lot of the toxins
and a lot of the bad energy,
or the Panema, that's
inside of your body,
you're letting that all go.
And you do, I would say not
directly after the ceremony,
but that next day,
if you want to feel
like the Superman or
the Super Woman feeling,
you're like, oh, my gosh.
You know, there
is a higher level
and you definitely feel
like you've let go of a lot.
And it is amazing what starts
happening in your life.
You start attracting.
And for me, it was I was
able to let go of a business
that I was no longer aligned to.
I was like-- and I felt it in
my core during that ceremony
and I was able to let that go.
And it was a nice
emotional release
that I don't need to be involved
with that person anymore.
And it was a great
understanding within my body.
Because my body was
telling me something
that I wasn't listening.
So once you're able
to let that all go,
you've got a lot of
clarity after that.
And it's, by the way,
Kambo is a frog medicine.
It's a secretion of
a frog, by the way.
Nature is all around us.
Nature is healing us.
So to understand the
secretion of a tree frog
that's going to go
onto your skin to help
detox your body blew me away.
I was like, this is too weird.
Until I experienced it for
myself and I was like, OK,
I get it.
And it's legal in
most countries.
That's the other thing.
I don't think the
government's really
caught onto it that much.
And they're like,
who would really
want to put themselves
through this?
But it works.
And it's a powerful--
it's just another tool.
It's not the only tool.
It's just another tool out
there that people can go to.
>> Yes.
So a part of your work
is about integration
after someone has used plant
medicine, or maybe Kambo
or what have you, to work
with the integration piece.
Now I'm very big on integration.
If we don't have the circuitry
to sustain any experience
that we're having, the
experience can actually
work opposite of what we're
anticipating or hoping for.
It can create a dualistic
experience in life
where all we want to do is go
back and do the medicine again
and be in that world
instead of this one.
So the integration
piece is huge, as far
as I'm concerned, as far as
long-term sustainable impact.
So tell us about what you're
doing to help people integrate
these experiences.
>> Yeah.
That's the biggest part of this.
So even after, let's
say, an Ayahuasca
ceremony or a
psilocybin experience,
people that are
working with Aya Flow,
it's we have this
experience, but I typically
like to have
accountability buddies.
So you team up with somebody and
you're accountable to someone
now.
So if I have this
experience that
says I need to stop drinking and
I know I need to stop drinking,
or I need to stop smoking,
what are the steps
that you're actually
taking to get there?
So how are you actually
changing your patterns
and your behavior?
And you have to be
accountable to somebody.
Because if when you're
accountable to yourself,
it's easy to be like,
yeah, you know what,
maybe I'll just
have this one drink,
even though my ceremony or the
insight in my Kambo ceremony
was that I need to
stop doing this.
You can cheat on
yourself very easily.
But when you're accountable
to somebody else,
it's a lot harder to be--
you want to be truthful.
And by the way, the
biggest part of this
is like the ceremony
is the easy part.
The integration, how you're
applying this knowledge
to your life, is the big part.
So it's how you
show up now to life,
how you show up to
this integration is
how you're going to show
up to everything in life.
So that's what I tell people.
It's like, this is your journey.
Do you want to really heal?
Do you really want
to do the work?
Then do it.
You know, be accountable
to yourself and others.
>> Is this talk therapy
that you engage in, then,
helping them to develop
a plan or to glean from
the experiences that they're
having during these ceremonies
to translate it into, OK, what's
this mean that I'm supposed
to do?
Is that--
>> Typically, people will
get some type of insight.
It could be two or three things,
let's say, for an Ayahuasca
or from a psilocybin experience.
And I'll have them
write that down.
What is it that you need to do?
What is it that
you need to change?
Typically everybody
has something that they
need to change in their life.
And yes, then it's a plan.
How are we going to get there?
And we think of
three foot tosses.
OK, so in this
experience, it says
that I need to change my
jobs and move to New York.
I'm like, that's not
going to happen overnight.
What are the three foot tosses
in order for you to get there?
So, OK, first of all,
I'm going to have to have
a conversation with my manager.
OK, great.
When are we going to do that?
OK, that's going
to be next week.
OK, great.
OK, next I'm going to have to
go research places in New York.
OK, great.
When is that research
going to take place?
Anyway, it's a
sequential step by step.
And we think of it a
logical place to do it.
And when I say three
foot toss, it's
like it has to be obtainable.
It has to be a plan
that's obtainable.
Otherwise, it's
going to be too much.
It's like someone
who's never worked out
in their entire life, like, I'm
going to workout for two hours
every single day
for the next week.
No, you're not.
If you've never done
it in your life,
why don't you commit to
one minute one day a week?
That's obtainable.
And by the way, when you'll get
in there for that one minute
you commit to yourself,
you'll probably do 30 minutes.
So that's when I-- and so we
make a plan, an actionable plan
that you're going to
do, that you can follow.
And I help them coach
along on that path
to make it obtainable, so that
they're not setting themselves
up for disaster.
>> Yeah, very good.
Giving the subconscious
evidence that I can, yes, I can.
>> Yeah.
Yes, I can.
You can do this.
Yeah.
And then that's part
of the accountability,
too, is when you're having these
struggles, you haven't quite
met your benchmark for that
week or for that month,
your accountability buddy is
there for you to understand,
OK, things come up.
But guess what?
Move on.
We didn't quite
meet that benchmark,
but you're going
to do it this week.
Make it happen.
And that's a big part
of this is you have
to be accountable to somebody.
>> Where can people go to
find more of your What's Your
Medicine stories?
>> Yeah, so we have
whatsyourmedicine.org.
They can go online and
check it out over there.
And we'll have a
link to our YouTube,
where we have plenty
other stories of people,
different people's journeys.
>> Lane, thank you for
the work that you do.
It's part of a new generation
of how to look at medicine
and how we need to approach
taking care of ourselves
and finding our true path.
It's been a great joy having you
bring all these amazing stories
to us today.
So thank you for being here.
>> Beautiful.
It was my honor.
Thank you so much.
>> Wonderful.
Wonderful.
I think that this
information will
spark many to have an open
mind about what is possible
and urge them to ask themselves,
what's your medicine?
I'm Dr. Sue Morter.
Thank you for watching
"Healing Matrix."